---
layout: post
title: "Day 1 - Getting Started (6 May. 2025)"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

I began my project on May 6th with the goal of fleshing out data structures and what I need to include for each movie on a Google Doc. I knew that I needed a way to handle all 37 MCU movies plus TV shows easily as well as account for all user input variations. Additionally, I wanted to have a visualization of what each movie would output, so I hoped to create a list of movies in Google Docs.

---

### What I Actually Did

I finished writing out a dictionary with an abbreviation of the movie as the key. I began with the idea of using characters as keys, but after listing all the movies and their necessary predecessors, I realized that it would be much easier to just create dictionaries by movies, omitting characters all together. At this point, I realized that doing all of the MCU movies would be too much; it already took so much time to write out the Multiverse Saga movies (from 2021 onwards), and with the given time frame going through all the way to 2008 would be really unrealistic.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

At this point in the process, I realized that my project wasn't as daunting as I thought. Obviously I hadn't fully realized what I was going to do, but it gave me peace of mind knowing it wasn't that bad. I think this stems from my commitment this semester to preplanning. Throughout the class I've been focusing on preplanning code, but seeing how that--taking a step back to think--applies to projects as a whole was gratifying. By mapping out exactly what the expected output is--sort of like writing test cases--and creating large data structures outside of Colab, I was able to take a step back from the pure Python aspect of the project, and just think about how logically my code would work best. I didn't think at all about what code to write--outside of the dictionaries--and I think that that was really helpful.

---

### What's Next

[What do you plan to tackle in the next stage of your project?]

The next step with my project was to bring everything into Colab. I planned on not only bringing in my huge dictionary, but also start coding the conversion from the full title to an abbreviation. This would make processing the movie much easier.
