---
layout: post
title: "Day 5 - Wrapping Up (13 May. 2025)"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

I wanted to finish my project on May 13th. I hoped to first determine the layout of my output. I wanted to focus on aesthetics to make it more readable and user friendly, so I hoped to add dividers and bullet points. I also wanted to add comments for clarity so that anyone who wants to look at my code can do so easily. Lastly, I hoped to test by myself and let my friends test it. If I had time, I wanted to revise the standalone code to make it a little less roundabout.

---

### What I Actually Did

I finalized the formatting for my code so that each line begins with a | to simulate a left-side edge, asteriks denote each movie like bulletpoints, and each category is divided by a line of en dashes. I ended up completely removing my code for the standalone movies, as I realized it was basically the main function but with more loops and conditionals. I spent some time integrating the categorial movies for standalone films into the main data structures, but aside from that I basically made no changes except for the removal of a conditional from my main function. This also made me realize just how useless the standalone function was. I added comments for clarity, and concluded the day by asking family and friends to test my code. Some suggested adding a way to identify misspelled titles, and from my experience showing them how to operate my code, I think that maybe implementing a suggestion statement for recommended movies would be nice.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

As I was wrapping up this project, I realized how much a semester long course really taught me in regards to problem solving in general. As I struggled with debugging and fixing for conciseness, I started to notice how quickly--compared to the start of the year--I could identify and fix the issue. I also found myself creating more and more innovative ways to solve problems. I remember at the beginning of the year I really struggled to solve a pyramid problem, and now tackling difficult problems feels a lot more streamlined in that I've found better ways to approach problems such as preplanning and mapping out my approach. I've grown accustomed to stopping before typing and really analyzing both the problem and potential solutions. I think that I've really grown in terms of adaptability and flexibility, knowing when a solution won't work and to stop pursuing it. 

---

### What's Next

As I've concluded my project, I mostly just need to create instructions for how to access my code, and implement some of the suggestions I received from peers. I've presented my project to my classmates, and I hope to receive feedback from them sometime soon as well. If I have time, I want to also work on further streamlining my code and removing any unnecessary bits.
