---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

This may be a little unconventional, but I'd say never underestimate a pencil and paper when coding. Of course, you're working with Google Colab, and they have Scratch Cells, but they are only so helpful. I personally enjoy have unrestrained access to a scratch medium, that is, being able to freely doodle ideas, cross them out but still have reference to them, and just let my work mirror my thoughts. I think that that is such an underrated way of thinking through a problem. Online mediums allow you to work strictly in line-by-line formatting, with little room for easy sketches or diagrams. This can severely restrain your thinking process. Of course, that is not to say that Scratch Cells should never be used; a large component of programming is testing small lines of code, which scratch cells are perfect for. However, if I could tell incoming students one thing, I'd tell them to always have a paper and pencil with you during coding sessions. To provide anecdotal evidence, I remember struggling with a pyramid problem when we first started learning for loops. I puzzled over it for almost a whole day before my dad pushed in front of me a piece of paper and a pencil. Only then was I able to make notes, and eventually figure out patterns crucial to the process. So, if you're headed into Programming Fundamentals, or any coding course, I'd like to say that a good old sheet of paper and a trusty pencil are your best friends.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

Sometimes, I'd look at a quest and think "I could never solve this." And then the next day, when I finally get around to working on it, I'd surprise myself with the ease at which I'd solve it. Over this course, I've learned to break down problems into more managable chunks, and so have been able to surprise myself. When solving a problem, I'd begin with a preplanning phase and end with a reflection phase. This type of compartmentalization is something I've been trying to work on, as I'm in the habit of simply diving right in without any before or afterthought. I've finally learned the value of it, and although I'm still working on proactively doing this, I'm sure this is something I'll carry with me.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

While this may be cliche, whenever I'd come across a challenge, I'd get up, grab a snack and wander around for a bit, before sitting back down. Sometimes, I'd time my work to coincide with a meal time so that I'd be forced to get up and step away. But as I've already said, I've found that the best way to tackle a tough time is to step away and be patient. Sometimes we all loose motivation or clarity when we've been focused on a project for too long--though for the former the opposite may be true occasionally--and it can be difficult to continue trucking along when you can't seem to find your way out of a muddle. But from my experience, the best way to handle setbacks both technical and mental, are to step away for a while. Whether you step away from academics entirely like I did, or you divert your attention to another school project, I've found that distracting yourself from the issue at hand is the best solution. If you don't know how to keep going, then stop going for a little while, you'll find that a cleared mindset and a fresh attitude are immensely helpful.

## What’s Next for You?

Over the summer, I'm hoping to do some work in data mining with my dad. I hope to either work at the intersection of data mining and healthcare or data mining and agriculture for these next few months. I think that both the technical and soft skills I've picked up in this class will show up both in the near future--with this project--and into the distant future--with whatever I choose to pick up even if it's not inherently CS. As I've already mentioned, I've picked up a lot of problem solving and critical thinking skills. The ability to step back has been something I've struggled with, but through this course, I've developed a keen ability to do so. Whether it is something that revolves around problem solving like math, or a larger scale project with inevitable problems, I'm sure that this ability to reflect will be a crucial component. 

---
