---
layout: post
title: "Day 2 - Expanding (8 May. 2025)"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

On May 8th, I wanted to bring my data structures into Colab and begin writing functions to convert movies into an abbreviation. This was different from my original idea of assigning the movie a variable name, but it was along the similar lines of compiling the user input data. We had recently learned about dictionaries, and I was excited to put this to the test. I knew that dictionaries would be a huge component of my project, and this was just the beginning. We had also only briefly talked about user input, so I was eager to begin exploring how to implement this into my code. 

---

### What I Actually Did

I finished the conversion code, and I wrote some extra code that I thought would be incorporated into my final code. The conversion code was fairly simple after I had written out ALL the movie titles. The code basically just scanned through the keys--to see if the input was an abbreviation itself--before iterating through the elements in each value's list. 
I struggled a little as dictionaries were fairly new at that point, but I got the hang of it after rereading the training. At this point, I was still a little convinced that I could manage all the MCU movies, so I wrote out the phases in a dictionary and attempted to write a function for the earlier movies that don't require anything before. None of the extra code made it into my final, but I was able to play around with different ways of checking for predecessors. At this point I fully restricted myself to the Multiverse Saga. 

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I think that this day was when I learned the true purpose of the PB&J problem presented at the beginning of the semester but in a different context. I spent a lot of time writing out different combinations for potential user input values, as I didn't know exactly what they would input (ie. capitalization, punctuation, format). Looking back, should I have instead just been more specific with exactly what the user should input, I would've saved a lot of time. Now, it's true that it's ergonomic, but I also spent a LOT of time on it. I think that this really shows the difference between humans and computers. With computers, you have to be super specific. However, with humans, you have to account for all sorts of variation in language and vernacular. I think that this will be a really important thing to keep in mind going forward as I continue to work with user-interaction projects.

---

### What's Next

I wanted to tackle the "odd ones out" next. There are some movies that are somewhat standalone, but still require some background knowledge, and I wanted to begin my coding there. This would also offer a smaller-scale version of what I aim to do for the entire project. This stage will look a lot like the conversion code to begin, as it also scans through a dictionary. I hope to also create a reverse of the conversion code so that abbreviations are translated back into the full title and year. 

