---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Compiling (12 May. 2025)"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

On May 12th, I hoped to start wrapping up. I wanted to finish the code for the three remaining categories, and then compile them all together. I needed to create data structures for each category. I hoped to fix the issue with some movies in the plot category printing as a list rather than a string.

---

### What I Actually Did

I ended up just writing the code for the must-watch category, and then creating a for loop using that same code for the other categories. I used code that I scrapped for the Yahtzee Mission that iterates through a list of dictionaries, iterating through the values in each, and had a corresponding phrase that would print. This was much easier than rewriting the other categories as separate functions, and took out some of the compiling work. I also figured out how to eliminate the list brackets printing by indexing it rather than printing the whole list. 
For reference, before it would print like this:
['Loki (2021']
After indexing the first value, it now prints like this:
Loki (2021)

Lastly, I incorporated the standalone function into my other function with a conditional statement.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I struggled especially with the integer-to-english quest in Mission 6 to get rid of old code and just start over. Then again in Mission 7, I felt a little let down that my idea wouldn't work, but seeing it incorporated into my Final Quest made me realize that just because somethign doesn't work in a specific context doesn't mean it won't work at all. An idea isn't bad beause it can't be used immediately, and dismissing a previously failed idea just limits your options. Especially in this case, recalling and using the for loop to iterate through functions saved me a lot of time otherwise spent rewriting the must-watch code for other categories. 

---

### What's Next

The only things remaining are to refine the formatting of the output and test with all the possibilities. I originally wanted it to be in a fact card type layout, but I think that it will some complexity what with determiing the width of the card. I want to simplify it a bit to also make it less crowded. I'll conclude by testing rigorously myself and having my friends test it out and provide feedback.
