---
layout: post
title: "Day 3 - Gaining Momentum (11 May. 2025)"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

On May 11th, I wanted to continue coding and knock out some of the stand out movies. Having slightly restructured my project, I hoped to gain back time by writing the first of my two case functions (that is one of two functions a movie will ultimately be routed through). I wanted to do this before the larger function because it would be like a small scale test of my idea. I also wanted to slightly modify the movie dictionary to include more information.

---

### What I Actually Did

I ended up finishing the standalone code and began writing code for the must-watch films. Since none of the standalone films have any "required" predecessors, I just created two data sets to return: one for characters and one for the plot. I struggled a little with formatting, as it kept not wrapping, so I ended up using a for loop to print each movie individually. I ended up adding the release year for each movie in the dictionary, and accessed it by calling the -1 index. This made the process a lot easier, as it was uniform. Additionally, I added TV shows to my roster, and had to add dictionaries for them. I wanted to consolidate my data as much as possible, so I ended up representing the less frequent of the two categories, plot, as a nested list. However, I've been struggling to remove the list brackets so that it returns normally.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

We had only recently learned about dictionaries, so this day was really helpful for learning my way around dictionaries and accessing values. I struggled initially with iterating through keys and values--especially elements of a list. I also ran into a lot of errors with indexing values, as I forgot that the key was the index, but I eventually figured it out. I had to trace the sample code in Training 19 a few times to grasp exactly how accessing elements works, but once I figured it out, it became clear that this would have to be a crucial component of my project. Once I got more comfortable, I began experimenting with leveraging other data types in them, such as nested lists, to avoid extraneous code.

---

### What's Next


Next, I wanted to write out code for the mainstream movies with the following categories: must-watch, characters, and plot. To do this, I also would have to create new data structures to hold the movies in each category. I hoped to reuse a lot of the code for the standalone movies, and find a way to compile them together. I also wanted to work a little on formatting. Originally, I wanted the output to be stylized in a sort of fact sheet, so I wanted to experiment with that.
